Add torch_dispatch and modes to extending.rst note (#102087)
pytorch/pytorch: docs/source/notes/extending.rst

by ``get_overridable_functions`` cannot be overriden.

.. _extending-torch-c++:

Extending :mod:`torch` native API
---------------------------------

> While ``__torch_function__`` allows to effectively extend PyTorch's pure python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While ``__torch_function__`` allows one to effectively extend PyTorch's pure python
```

components' behavior, it does not allow to extend the parts of
PyTorch implemented in C++. To that end, a :class:`Tensor` subclass can also
define ``__torch_dispatch__`` which will be able to override the behavior at the

> c++ level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C++ level.
```

To effectively use this feature, it is important to know how the native part of
PyTorch is implemented. The most important component there is what we call the
"dispatcher" (the best description can be found in this [blog post](http://blog.ezyang.com/2020/09/lets-talk-about-the-pytorch-dispatcher/) even though it is slightly outdated).As
hinted by its name, it is responsible to call the right backend
function for a specific call of a function. For example, when calling
``torch.add(a, b)``, the dispatcher will inspect both argument, figure out which
"feature" (autograd, autocast, functionalization, etc) and which "backend" (CPU,
CUDA, MPS, etc) should be used for this specific call and finally call all the
right kernels.

> A very common thing done by a kernel is "redispatch". For example when running your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A very common thing done by a kernel is to "redispatch". For example, when running your
```

neural network on GPU with autocast, the call will be first the autocast kernel that
will handle any potential autocast logic and redispatch down. The next feature in line
will be autograd that will properly create the autograd graph and redispatch down.
Finally, we reach the backend kernel for CUDA which will launch the right CUDA kernel
and return the final result. On the way out, autograd will attach the graph to the
output and then autocast will have a chance to do any update it needs on exit.

> One of the configuration of the dispatcher is the order in which all these feature and backend keys are called. The latest list can be found in ``DispatchKey.h`` inside the ``DispatchKey`` enum. For the purpose of extending torch, the important piece of ordering is: vmap -> Autocast -> Autograd -> ZeroTensor -> Neg/Conj -> Functionalize -> Python -> Backends. The most important key for the purpose of this discussion is the ``Python`` one as every Tensor subclass with the ``__torch_dispatch__`` method defined will have the flag to call into this feature. It is from there that the user-defined method is called and where the behavior can be overwritten arbitrarily. From there, calling the provided ``func`` again will perform a "redispatch".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One configuration of the dispatcher is the order in which all these feature and backend keys are called. The latest list can be found in ``DispatchKey.h`` inside the ``DispatchKey`` enum. For the purpose of extending torch, the important ordering to observe is: vmap -> Autocast -> Autograd -> ZeroTensor -> Neg/Conj -> Functionalize -> Python -> Backends. The most important key for the purpose of this discussion is the ``Python`` one as every Tensor subclass with the ``__torch_dispatch__`` method defined will have the flag to call into this feature. It is from there that the user-defined method is called and where the behavior can be overwritten arbitrarily. From there, calling the provided ``func`` again will perform a "redispatch".
```
I get the sense of what you’re talking about, but I don’t know what “flag” means.

Author: "flag" is not a great name indeed. Removing to just say that we call it.

Some important implication of this implementation are:
- This code runs "below all features" it is thus only responsible, like a regular backend, to generate the output value of each Tensor (and can, and should, ignore all advanced features like autograd, autocast, etc).
- If any high level feature implement a give function without redispatching, it will never reach the Python key and so the ``__torch_dispatch__`` callback will never be triggered. This happens in particular for CompositeImplicitAutograd function (composite functions whose autograd formula is specified implicitly by the other native ops it calls) which are evaluated at the Autograd level without redispatching.

> - When calling back to python and when wrapping the results, the usual conversions are used as some objects cannot be represented in python (undefined Tensors for example become None).

Author: It refers to the usual ones we do in pytorch that are not standard python stuff. Is the new formulation better?

> - When calling back to Python and when wrapping the results, the same conversions are used as regular PyTorch Python/C++ binding.In particular, some objects cannot be represented in Python and need special handling (undefined Tensors for example become None).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When calling back to Python and when wrapping the results, the same conversions are used as the regular PyTorch Python/C++ binding. In particular, some objects cannot be represented in Python and need special handling (undefined Tensors for example become None).
```

> - To have an easy to use python object representing a given native function, they are lazily populated at ``torch.ops.{namespace}.{func_name}.{overload_name}``. The ``func`` object given to ``__torch_dispatch__`` is always an entry from this namespace. This namespace can be used to directly call native ops and bypass the usual python API and binding code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Our native functions are lazily populated as ``torch.ops.{namespace}.{func_name}.{overload_name}`` as Python objects to enable calling them in Python. The ``func`` object given to ``__torch_dispatch__`` is always an entry from this namespace. This namespace can be used to directly call native ops and bypass the usual python API and binding code.
```
Is this the intent of the phrasing?

Author: Yes! Thanks for the proposed rephrasing.

> In a similar way where ``__torch_function__`` is able to interpose on all of torch's python API and Tensor methods, ``__torch_dispatch__`` is able to intercept all calls into the aten native API. Note that all methods on Tensors are converted into function calls before entering the dispatcher and thus will appear as function calls here: ``torch.add(a, 2)`` and ``a + 2`` will lead to exactly the same aten call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a similar way where ``__torch_function__`` is able to interpose on all of torch's Python API and Tensor methods, ``__torch_dispatch__`` is able to intercept all calls into the aten native API. Note that all methods on Tensors are converted into function calls before entering the dispatcher and thus will appear as function calls here: ``torch.add(a, 2)`` and ``a + 2`` will lead to exactly the same aten call.
```

> Most of these function are defined in ``native_functions.yaml`` which specifies the properties of these functions as well as their backend implementation. Their registration is then generated via codegen alongside some of the feature registrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of these functions are defined in ``native_functions.yaml`` which specifies the properties of these functions as well as their backend implementation. Their implementation alongside specified features are then automatically registered via codegen.
```
The previous sentence "Their registration is then generated via codegen alongside some of the feature registrations." was confusing--is the point that we codegen everything?

Author: Mostly yes.

> Some more exotic functions or features are also registered in other places in the c++ codebase or in user-defined c++ extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some more exotic functions or features are also registered in other places in the C++ codebase or in user-defined C++ extensions.
```
This is a cliffhanger--are these exotic functions/features people should be aware of?

Author: I think so yes. People reading this should not expect everything to be in native_functions.yaml.

> It is also possible to add new native functions using :mod:`torch.library`. This python feature allows to define and/or add new implementations to native functions. This can be used to add missing kernels, replace existing ones or define brand new native functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to add `new` native functions using :mod:`torch.library`. This python feature allows defining and/or adding new implementations to native functions. This can be used to add missing kernels, replace existing ones or define brand new native functions.
```
I'm guessing "new" is the keyword here? Is the advisory to use torch_dispatch to interpose on the C++ level, torch_function on the Python level _for existing ops_ and then to use torch.library to add missing implementations?  This is likely gonna get confusing with custom ops lol, will you eventually be addressing that too?

Author: CustomOp is a layer on top of torch.library to make it easier to use. So yes that will be handled in a follow up.

> You can find many examples of ``__torch_dispatch__``-based subclasses in the [subclass zoo](https://github.com/albanD/subclass_zoo) repo.

Reviewer: 🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉

for a detailed explanation and examples.

Documentations are available at :doc:`../cpp_extension`.

Writing custom C extensions
---------------------------

Example available at

> `this GitHub repository <https://github.com/pytorch/extension-ffi>`_.

Reviewer: is this just outdated? or is the removal unintentional

Author: Yes this repo has been dead for a while. I archived it as well.
